README.md, before:

# lambda-amis-autoscaling-to-be-deleted

AWS lambda function

# author

Tomer Tcherniak

# info

```
This lambda stack contains:
1) calculate volumes to be deleted:
   volumes with status available and more than num days can be deleted as they are not used by any instance
2) calculate unused autoscaling:
   autoscaling groups which have no instances attached
3) check reservation set up for each ec2 instance type
4) calculate images to be deleted:  
   images which are not used by any instance or launch config and more than num days can be deleted
```
# lambda environment variables

```
region      : "region to deploy this lambda to"
memory_size : "size in MB to allocate to the Lambda for this function"
timeout     : "default Timeout in Seconds before the Lambda is considered Failed"
use_profile : "use profile - used for debug , if would like to run from a local machine"
delete_flag : "used for debug , if true - deletion is activated"
days_count  : "Images more than X days which are not used by any instance will be notify as not used."
regions_arr : "Run on all the the regions whcih are set"
```

# prerequisite

Change self.slackurl = "https://hooks.slack.com/services/ChangeME" to a proper slack webhook url

# terraform version

Terraform v1.1.4


# slack info

```
Reservation slack info:
eu-west-1 # ec2  # NoneReserved : Type m5, Running : 6
eu-west-1 # ec2  # NoneReserved : Type r4, Running : 8
eu-west-1 # ec2  # NoneReserved : Type t3, Running : 2

Image slack info:
Debug Images removal AWS_REGION eu-west-1 CreationDate 2020-04-21T14:32:59.000Z, Name XXXXX, ImageId ami-yyyy

ASG slack info:
ASG in eu-west-1 / accountid XXXXX , Instance count :0 , Creation Date :2019-09-12 13
```

# terrafrom Apply

```
Terraform used the selected providers to generate the following execution plan. Resource actions are indicated with the following symbols:
  + create

Terraform will perform the following actions:

  # aws_cloudwatch_event_rule.every_day will be created
  + resource "aws_cloudwatch_event_rule" "every_day" {
      + arn                 = (known after apply)
      + description         = "triggers every day"
      + event_bus_name      = "default"
      + id                  = (known after apply)
      + is_enabled          = true
      + name                = "every-day"
      + name_prefix         = (known after apply)
      + schedule_expression = "rate(1 day)"
      + tags_all            = (known after apply)
    }

  # aws_cloudwatch_event_target.monitor_lambda_amis_autoscaling_to_be_deleted_every_day will be created
  + resource "aws_cloudwatch_event_target" "monitor_lambda_amis_autoscaling_to_be_deleted_every_day" {
      + arn            = (known after apply)
      + event_bus_name = "default"
      + id             = (known after apply)
      + rule           = "every-day"
      + target_id      = "lambda-amis-autoscaling-to-be-deleted"
    }

  # aws_iam_role.iam_role will be created
  + resource "aws_iam_role" "iam_role" {
      + arn                   = (known after apply)
      + assume_role_policy    = jsonencode(
            {
              + Statement = [
                  + {
                      + Action    = "sts:AssumeRole"
                      + Effect    = "Allow"
                      + Principal = {
                          + Service = "lambda.amazonaws.com"
                        }
                      + Sid       = ""
                    },
                ]
              + Version   = "2012-10-17"
            }
        )
      + create_date           = (known after apply)
      + force_detach_policies = false
      + id                    = (known after apply)
      + managed_policy_arns   = (known after apply)
      + max_session_duration  = 3600
      + name                  = "lambda-amis-autoscaling-to-be-deleted-eu-west-1-iam-role"
      + name_prefix           = (known after apply)
      + path                  = "/"
      + tags_all              = (known after apply)
      + unique_id             = (known after apply)

      + inline_policy {
          + name   = (known after apply)
          + policy = (known after apply)
        }
    }

  # aws_iam_role_policy.ec2_ami_launch_config_policy will be created
  + resource "aws_iam_role_policy" "ec2_ami_launch_config_policy" {
      + id     = (known after apply)
      + name   = "ec2_ami_launch_config"
      + policy = jsonencode(
            {
              + Statement = [
                  + {
                      + Action   = [
                          + "ec2:DeregisterImage*",
                          + "ec2:DeleteSnapshot*",
                          + "ec2:DeleteVolume*",
                          + "autoscaling:DescribeLaunchConfiguration*",
                        ]
                      + Effect   = "Allow"
                      + Resource = "*"
                      + Sid      = "CreateLogStream"
                    },
                ]
              + Version   = "2012-10-17"
            }
        )
      + role   = (known after apply)
    }

  # aws_iam_role_policy.ec2_describe_policy will be created
  + resource "aws_iam_role_policy" "ec2_describe_policy" {
      + id     = (known after apply)
      + name   = "ec2_describe"
      + policy = jsonencode(
            {
              + Statement = [
                  + {
                      + Action   = [
                          + "rds:Describe*",
                          + "ec2:describe*",
                          + "autoscaling:DescribeAutoScalingGroups",
                        ]
                      + Effect   = "Allow"
                      + Resource = "*"
                      + Sid      = "CreateLogStream"
                    },
                ]
              + Version   = "2012-10-17"
            }
        )
      + role   = (known after apply)
    }

  # aws_iam_role_policy.logging_policy will be created
  + resource "aws_iam_role_policy" "logging_policy" {
      + id     = (known after apply)
      + name   = "logging"
      + policy = jsonencode(
            {
              + Statement = [
                  + {
                      + Action   = [
                          + "logs:PutLogEvents",
                          + "logs:GetLogEvents",
                          + "logs:FilterLogEvents",
                          + "logs:DescribeLogStreams",
                          + "logs:DescribeLogGroups",
                          + "logs:CreateLogStream",
                          + "logs:CreateLogGroup",
                        ]
                      + Effect   = "Allow"
                      + Resource = "*"
                      + Sid      = "CreateLogStream"
                    },
                ]
              + Version   = "2012-10-17"
            }
        )
      + role   = (known after apply)
    }

  # aws_iam_role_policy_attachment.basic_lambda_exec_role will be created
  + resource "aws_iam_role_policy_attachment" "basic_lambda_exec_role" {
      + id         = (known after apply)
      + policy_arn = "arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/service-role/AWSLambdaBasicExecutionRole"
      + role       = "lambda-amis-autoscaling-to-be-deleted-eu-west-1-iam-role"
    }

  # aws_lambda_function.lambda will be created
  + resource "aws_lambda_function" "lambda" {
      + architectures                  = (known after apply)
      + arn                            = (known after apply)
      + description                    = "Function for sre visibility channel"
      + filename                       = "./lambda-amis-autoscaling-to-be-deleted.zip"
      + function_name                  = "lambda-amis-autoscaling-to-be-deleted"
      + handler                        = "lambda-amis-autoscaling-to-be-deleted.lambda_handler"
      + id                             = (known after apply)
      + invoke_arn                     = (known after apply)
      + last_modified                  = (known after apply)
      + memory_size                    = 512
      + package_type                   = "Zip"
      + publish                        = false
      + qualified_arn                  = (known after apply)
      + reserved_concurrent_executions = 1
      + role                           = (known after apply)
      + runtime                        = "python3.6"
      + signing_job_arn                = (known after apply)
      + signing_profile_version_arn    = (known after apply)
      + source_code_hash               = "G5aTl8ERNG5WW6ksf/eyTDBdGU60qo8XRqVV8TNZNqg="
      + source_code_size               = (known after apply)
      + tags_all                       = (known after apply)
      + timeout                        = 900
      + version                        = (known after apply)

      + environment {
          + variables = {
              + "days_count"  = "180"
              + "delete_flag" = "true"
              + "region"      = "eu-west-1"
              + "regions_arr" = "eu-west-1,eu-central-1,ap-southeast-2,us-east-1,us-west-2,us-east-2"
              + "use_profile" = "false"
            }
        }

      + tracing_config {
          + mode = (known after apply)
        }
    }

  # aws_lambda_permission.allow_cloudwatch_to_call_check_foo will be created
  + resource "aws_lambda_permission" "allow_cloudwatch_to_call_check_foo" {
      + action        = "lambda:InvokeFunction"
      + function_name = "lambda-amis-autoscaling-to-be-deleted"
      + id            = (known after apply)
      + principal     = "events.amazonaws.com"
      + source_arn    = (known after apply)
      + statement_id  = "AllowExecutionFromCloudWatch"
    }

Plan: 9 to add, 0 to change, 0 to destroy.

Changes to Outputs:
  + days_count           = 180
  + lambda_arn           = (known after apply)
  + lambda_iam_role_arn  = (known after apply)
  + lambda_iam_role_name = "lambda-amis-autoscaling-to-be-deleted-eu-west-1-iam-role"
  + lambda_name          = "lambda-amis-autoscaling-to-be-deleted"
  + regions_arr          = "eu-west-1,eu-central-1,ap-southeast-2,us-east-1,us-west-2,us-east-2"
  + use_profile          = "false"

Do you want to perform these actions?
  Terraform will perform the actions described above.
  Only 'yes' will be accepted to approve.

  Enter a value: yes

aws_cloudwatch_event_rule.every_day: Creating...
aws_iam_role.iam_role: Creating...
aws_cloudwatch_event_rule.every_day: Creation complete after 1s [id=every-day]
aws_iam_role.iam_role: Creation complete after 3s [id=lambda-amis-autoscaling-to-be-deleted-eu-west-1-iam-role]
aws_iam_role_policy.logging_policy: Creating...
aws_iam_role_policy.ec2_ami_launch_config_policy: Creating...
aws_iam_role_policy.ec2_describe_policy: Creating...
aws_iam_role_policy_attachment.basic_lambda_exec_role: Creating...
aws_lambda_function.lambda: Creating...
aws_iam_role_policy.logging_policy: Creation complete after 1s [id=lambda-amis-autoscaling-to-be-deleted-eu-west-1-iam-role:logging]
aws_iam_role_policy.ec2_ami_launch_config_policy: Creation complete after 1s [id=lambda-amis-autoscaling-to-be-deleted-eu-west-1-iam-role:ec2_ami_launch_config]
aws_iam_role_policy_attachment.basic_lambda_exec_role: Creation complete after 1s [id=lambda-amis-autoscaling-to-be-deleted-eu-west-1-iam-role-20220127141125378700000001]
aws_iam_role_policy.ec2_describe_policy: Creation complete after 1s [id=lambda-amis-autoscaling-to-be-deleted-eu-west-1-iam-role:ec2_describe]
aws_lambda_function.lambda: Still creating... [10s elapsed]
aws_lambda_function.lambda: Creation complete after 16s [id=lambda-amis-autoscaling-to-be-deleted]
aws_lambda_permission.allow_cloudwatch_to_call_check_foo: Creating...
aws_cloudwatch_event_target.monitor_lambda_amis_autoscaling_to_be_deleted_every_day: Creating...
aws_lambda_permission.allow_cloudwatch_to_call_check_foo: Creation complete after 1s [id=AllowExecutionFromCloudWatch]
aws_cloudwatch_event_target.monitor_lambda_amis_autoscaling_to_be_deleted_every_day: Creation complete after 1s [id=every-day-lambda-amis-autoscaling-to-be-deleted]

Apply complete! Resources: 9 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.

Outputs:

days_count = 180
lambda_arn = "arn:aws:apigateway:eu-west-1:lambda:path/2015-03-31/functions/arn:aws:lambda:eu-west-1:accountid:function:lambda-amis-autoscaling-to-be-deleted/invocations"
lambda_iam_role_arn = "arn:aws:iam::accountid:role/lambda-amis-autoscaling-to-be-deleted-eu-west-1-iam-role"
lambda_iam_role_name = "lambda-amis-autoscaling-to-be-deleted-eu-west-1-iam-role"
lambda_name = "lambda-amis-autoscaling-to-be-deleted"
regions_arr = "eu-west-1,eu-central-1,ap-southeast-2,us-east-1,us-west-2,us-east-2"
use_profile = "false"
```

Commit message:

changing README + lambda-amis-autoscaling-to-be-deleted.py

README.md, after:

# lambda-amis-autoscaling-to-be-deleted

AWS lambda function

# author

Tomer Tcherniak

# info

```
This lambda stack contains:
1) calculate volumes to be deleted:
   volumes with status available and more than num days can be deleted as they are not used by any instance
2) calculate unused autoscaling:
   autoscaling groups which have no instances attached
3) check reservation set up for each ec2 instance type
4) calculate images to be deleted:  
   images which are not used by any instance or launch config and more than num days can be deleted
```
# lambda environment variables

```
region      : "region to deploy this lambda to"
memory_size : "size in MB to allocate to the Lambda for this function"
timeout     : "default Timeout in Seconds before the Lambda is considered Failed"
use_profile : "use profile - used for debug , if would like to run from a local machine"
delete_flag : "used for debug , if true - deletion is activated"
days_count  : "Images more than X days which are not used by any instance will be notify as not used."
regions_arr : "Run on all the the regions whcih are set"
```

# prerequisite

Change self.slackurl = "https://hooks.slack.com/services/ChangeME" to a proper slack webhook url

# run

For smalll environments please set more than 1 region in regions_arr
```
variable "regions_arr" {
  default     = "eu-west-1,eu-central-1,ap-southeast-2,us-east-1,us-west-2,us-east-2" #,us-east-2
```
As lambda support run only for 15 minutes
```
https://aws.amazon.com/about-aws/whats-new/2018/10/aws-lambda-supports-functions-that-can-run-up-to-15-minutes/
```
the run includes 1) calculate volumes to be deleted 2) calculate unused autoscaling 3) check reservation set up for each ec2 instance type 4) calculate images to be deleted
Another option is to remark / disable the number of functions which are activated

# terraform version

Terraform v1.1.4


# slack info

```
Reservation slack info:
eu-west-1 # ec2  # NoneReserved : Type m5, Running : 6
eu-west-1 # ec2  # NoneReserved : Type r4, Running : 8
eu-west-1 # ec2  # NoneReserved : Type t3, Running : 2

Image slack info:
Debug Images removal AWS_REGION eu-west-1 CreationDate 2020-04-21T14:32:59.000Z, Name XXXXX, ImageId ami-yyyy

ASG slack info:
ASG in eu-west-1 / accountid XXXXX , Instance count :0 , Creation Date :2019-09-12 13
```

# terrafrom Apply

```
Terraform used the selected providers to generate the following execution plan. Resource actions are indicated with the following symbols:
  + create

Terraform will perform the following actions:

  # aws_cloudwatch_event_rule.every_day will be created
  + resource "aws_cloudwatch_event_rule" "every_day" {
      + arn                 = (known after apply)
      + description         = "triggers every day"
      + event_bus_name      = "default"
      + id                  = (known after apply)
      + is_enabled          = true
      + name                = "every-day"
      + name_prefix         = (known after apply)
      + schedule_expression = "rate(1 day)"
      + tags_all            = (known after apply)
    }

  # aws_cloudwatch_event_target.monitor_lambda_amis_autoscaling_to_be_deleted_every_day will be created
  + resource "aws_cloudwatch_event_target" "monitor_lambda_amis_autoscaling_to_be_deleted_every_day" {
      + arn            = (known after apply)
      + event_bus_name = "default"
      + id             = (known after apply)
      + rule           = "every-day"
      + target_id      = "lambda-amis-autoscaling-to-be-deleted"
    }

  # aws_iam_role.iam_role will be created
  + resource "aws_iam_role" "iam_role" {
      + arn                   = (known after apply)
      + assume_role_policy    = jsonencode(
            {
              + Statement = [
                  + {
                      + Action    = "sts:AssumeRole"
                      + Effect    = "Allow"
                      + Principal = {
                          + Service = "lambda.amazonaws.com"
                        }
                      + Sid       = ""
                    },
                ]
              + Version   = "2012-10-17"
            }
        )
      + create_date           = (known after apply)
      + force_detach_policies = false
      + id                    = (known after apply)
      + managed_policy_arns   = (known after apply)
      + max_session_duration  = 3600
      + name                  = "lambda-amis-autoscaling-to-be-deleted-eu-west-1-iam-role"
      + name_prefix           = (known after apply)
      + path                  = "/"
      + tags_all              = (known after apply)
      + unique_id             = (known after apply)

      + inline_policy {
          + name   = (known after apply)
          + policy = (known after apply)
        }
    }

  # aws_iam_role_policy.ec2_ami_launch_config_policy will be created
  + resource "aws_iam_role_policy" "ec2_ami_launch_config_policy" {
      + id     = (known after apply)
      + name   = "ec2_ami_launch_config"
      + policy = jsonencode(
            {
              + Statement = [
                  + {
                      + Action   = [
                          + "ec2:DeregisterImage*",
                          + "ec2:DeleteSnapshot*",
                          + "ec2:DeleteVolume*",
                          + "autoscaling:DescribeLaunchConfiguration*",
                        ]
                      + Effect   = "Allow"
                      + Resource = "*"
                      + Sid      = "CreateLogStream"
                    },
                ]
              + Version   = "2012-10-17"
            }
        )
      + role   = (known after apply)
    }

  # aws_iam_role_policy.ec2_describe_policy will be created
  + resource "aws_iam_role_policy" "ec2_describe_policy" {
      + id     = (known after apply)
      + name   = "ec2_describe"
      + policy = jsonencode(
            {
              + Statement = [
                  + {
                      + Action   = [
                          + "rds:Describe*",
                          + "ec2:describe*",
                          + "autoscaling:DescribeAutoScalingGroups",
                        ]
                      + Effect   = "Allow"
                      + Resource = "*"
                      + Sid      = "CreateLogStream"
                    },
                ]
              + Version   = "2012-10-17"
            }
        )
      + role   = (known after apply)
    }

  # aws_iam_role_policy.logging_policy will be created
  + resource "aws_iam_role_policy" "logging_policy" {
      + id     = (known after apply)
      + name   = "logging"
      + policy = jsonencode(
            {
              + Statement = [
                  + {
                      + Action   = [
                          + "logs:PutLogEvents",
                          + "logs:GetLogEvents",
                          + "logs:FilterLogEvents",
                          + "logs:DescribeLogStreams",
                          + "logs:DescribeLogGroups",
                          + "logs:CreateLogStream",
                          + "logs:CreateLogGroup",
                        ]
                      + Effect   = "Allow"
                      + Resource = "*"
                      + Sid      = "CreateLogStream"
                    },
                ]
              + Version   = "2012-10-17"
            }
        )
      + role   = (known after apply)
    }

  # aws_iam_role_policy_attachment.basic_lambda_exec_role will be created
  + resource "aws_iam_role_policy_attachment" "basic_lambda_exec_role" {
      + id         = (known after apply)
      + policy_arn = "arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/service-role/AWSLambdaBasicExecutionRole"
      + role       = "lambda-amis-autoscaling-to-be-deleted-eu-west-1-iam-role"
    }

  # aws_lambda_function.lambda will be created
  + resource "aws_lambda_function" "lambda" {
      + architectures                  = (known after apply)
      + arn                            = (known after apply)
      + description                    = "Function for sre visibility channel"
      + filename                       = "./lambda-amis-autoscaling-to-be-deleted.zip"
      + function_name                  = "lambda-amis-autoscaling-to-be-deleted"
      + handler                        = "lambda-amis-autoscaling-to-be-deleted.lambda_handler"
      + id                             = (known after apply)
      + invoke_arn                     = (known after apply)
      + last_modified                  = (known after apply)
      + memory_size                    = 512
      + package_type                   = "Zip"
      + publish                        = false
      + qualified_arn                  = (known after apply)
      + reserved_concurrent_executions = 1
      + role                           = (known after apply)
      + runtime                        = "python3.6"
      + signing_job_arn                = (known after apply)
      + signing_profile_version_arn    = (known after apply)
      + source_code_hash               = "G5aTl8ERNG5WW6ksf/eyTDBdGU60qo8XRqVV8TNZNqg="
      + source_code_size               = (known after apply)
      + tags_all                       = (known after apply)
      + timeout                        = 900
      + version                        = (known after apply)

      + environment {
          + variables = {
              + "days_count"  = "180"
              + "delete_flag" = "true"
              + "region"      = "eu-west-1"
              + "regions_arr" = "eu-west-1,eu-central-1,ap-southeast-2,us-east-1,us-west-2,us-east-2"
              + "use_profile" = "false"
            }
        }

      + tracing_config {
          + mode = (known after apply)
        }
    }

  # aws_lambda_permission.allow_cloudwatch_to_call_check_foo will be created
  + resource "aws_lambda_permission" "allow_cloudwatch_to_call_check_foo" {
      + action        = "lambda:InvokeFunction"
      + function_name = "lambda-amis-autoscaling-to-be-deleted"
      + id            = (known after apply)
      + principal     = "events.amazonaws.com"
      + source_arn    = (known after apply)
      + statement_id  = "AllowExecutionFromCloudWatch"
    }

Plan: 9 to add, 0 to change, 0 to destroy.

Changes to Outputs:
  + days_count           = 180
  + lambda_arn           = (known after apply)
  + lambda_iam_role_arn  = (known after apply)
  + lambda_iam_role_name = "lambda-amis-autoscaling-to-be-deleted-eu-west-1-iam-role"
  + lambda_name          = "lambda-amis-autoscaling-to-be-deleted"
  + regions_arr          = "eu-west-1,eu-central-1,ap-southeast-2,us-east-1,us-west-2,us-east-2"
  + use_profile          = "false"

Do you want to perform these actions?
  Terraform will perform the actions described above.
  Only 'yes' will be accepted to approve.

  Enter a value: yes

aws_cloudwatch_event_rule.every_day: Creating...
aws_iam_role.iam_role: Creating...
aws_cloudwatch_event_rule.every_day: Creation complete after 1s [id=every-day]
aws_iam_role.iam_role: Creation complete after 3s [id=lambda-amis-autoscaling-to-be-deleted-eu-west-1-iam-role]
aws_iam_role_policy.logging_policy: Creating...
aws_iam_role_policy.ec2_ami_launch_config_policy: Creating...
aws_iam_role_policy.ec2_describe_policy: Creating...
aws_iam_role_policy_attachment.basic_lambda_exec_role: Creating...
aws_lambda_function.lambda: Creating...
aws_iam_role_policy.logging_policy: Creation complete after 1s [id=lambda-amis-autoscaling-to-be-deleted-eu-west-1-iam-role:logging]
aws_iam_role_policy.ec2_ami_launch_config_policy: Creation complete after 1s [id=lambda-amis-autoscaling-to-be-deleted-eu-west-1-iam-role:ec2_ami_launch_config]
aws_iam_role_policy_attachment.basic_lambda_exec_role: Creation complete after 1s [id=lambda-amis-autoscaling-to-be-deleted-eu-west-1-iam-role-20220127141125378700000001]
aws_iam_role_policy.ec2_describe_policy: Creation complete after 1s [id=lambda-amis-autoscaling-to-be-deleted-eu-west-1-iam-role:ec2_describe]
aws_lambda_function.lambda: Still creating... [10s elapsed]
aws_lambda_function.lambda: Creation complete after 16s [id=lambda-amis-autoscaling-to-be-deleted]
aws_lambda_permission.allow_cloudwatch_to_call_check_foo: Creating...
aws_cloudwatch_event_target.monitor_lambda_amis_autoscaling_to_be_deleted_every_day: Creating...
aws_lambda_permission.allow_cloudwatch_to_call_check_foo: Creation complete after 1s [id=AllowExecutionFromCloudWatch]
aws_cloudwatch_event_target.monitor_lambda_amis_autoscaling_to_be_deleted_every_day: Creation complete after 1s [id=every-day-lambda-amis-autoscaling-to-be-deleted]

Apply complete! Resources: 9 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.

Outputs:

days_count = 180
lambda_arn = "arn:aws:apigateway:eu-west-1:lambda:path/2015-03-31/functions/arn:aws:lambda:eu-west-1:accountid:function:lambda-amis-autoscaling-to-be-deleted/invocations"
lambda_iam_role_arn = "arn:aws:iam::accountid:role/lambda-amis-autoscaling-to-be-deleted-eu-west-1-iam-role"
lambda_iam_role_name = "lambda-amis-autoscaling-to-be-deleted-eu-west-1-iam-role"
lambda_name = "lambda-amis-autoscaling-to-be-deleted"
regions_arr = "eu-west-1,eu-central-1,ap-southeast-2,us-east-1,us-west-2,us-east-2"
use_profile = "false"
```
